AVIATION ANALYSIS PROJECT:STRATEGIC RISK ASSESSMENT FOR AVIATION ASSET ACQUISITION

PROJECT OVERVIEW

Aircraft operations businesses both commercial and private involve complex activities from manufacturing to flight,focusing on safety,efficiency and profitability, encompassing airline services, airport management, air traffic control and support like maintenance and logistics, all driven by strategic planning, revenue management and strict regulations. This project provides a data-driven roadmap for the company’s expansion into the aviation sector. By analyzing 61 years of National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) aviation accident data, this research identifies high-reliability aircraft makes and models that represent the lowest risk for commercial and private operations. Our findings bridge the gap between historical safety records and future investment strategies.

BUSINESS PROBLEM
Risk is any event leading to loss. The aviation industry too is a venture with very many risks.Entering the aviation industry involves significant capital expenditure and high liability.Without historical expertise, the company faces the "Blind Entry" risk—purchasing aircraft that may be prone to mechanical failure or high fatality rates.In the Aviation venture, risk can be categorized in terms of Severity, Structure and Mechanical aspects among others. Severity looks at the percentage of incidents that result in fatal or serious injuries. A high-risk aircraft is one where incidents are rarely survivable. Structural damage risk is the likelihood of an aircraft to being "Destroyed" vs. sustaining "Substantial" or "Minor" damage. This impacts the financial risk and insurance costs for the company.Mechanical risk is the failure rate of specific engine types across different phases of flight. With other present risks, solving the above mentioned ones will immensely boost portfolio growth,strategic agility, revenue and overall great company performance.
